ResearchLegal Questions:1.	Lawyer betrays client, reveals privileged informationa.	Disbarred?b.	Can info be used to convict client? Is it admissible?“There may also be instances in which a future threat of imminent death, bodily harm to another or future criminal activity could provide an exception to disclosure of the communication to the appropriate authority. Also, just because an attorney may not divulge the privileged communication does not mean that he can suborn perjury. The ethical rules prohibit an attorney from taking testimony from a witness he knows to be false. This may have particular significance in a criminal case if the client has admitted guilt to his attorney and then attempts to deny the guilt under oath at trial. Also, the privilege does not support hiding physical evidence of a crime.Most ethical rules also attempt to address the situation where the privileged communication is accidentally disclosed to another party. Those rules require the receiving attorney to immediately return the privileged communication, without copying it, and prohibits the use of the evidence at trial. In such instances, courts look very carefully at the circumstances surrounding the "accidental" disclosure.”http://www.cochranfirm.com/resources/Ask-our-Lawyers/attorneyclientprivilege.htmlI spoke with John (the attorney at work). Here’s the gist:i.	Info between client and lawyer is privilegedii.	Can’t report confessions of past crimesiii.	Can (must?) report confession of intention to commit new crimeiv.	Info that is produced during the casework for client is considered work-product and is also privileged. If accidentally shared with prosecution, they must return the documents without copying, and they are not allowed to use the information in the execution of their duties.v.	The attorney cannot suborn perjury, that is to say that he cannot knowingly ask client (under oath) a question that he knows the answer to be untrue. So, if client confesses to murder, attorney cannot report it to authorities, but also cannot ask of the client on the stand “did you kill him?” knowing the client will lie.vi.	Punishment up to disbarment (unlikely), assuming client files an ethics complaintvii.	Ignoring legal and ethical questions, John made a great point in that the attorney is screwing his reputation if he spills the beans on privileged info. No client will trust him.2.	Café responsible for treasonous activity on their open WiFi?a.	Assume basic safeguards have been implementedb.	Assume user clicks TOS agree button to accessUK - http://www.zath.co.uk/pub-landlord-fined-8000-for-pirate-downloads-on-wi-fi/Non-lawyer discussion in comments of this page - http://paulkiser.wordpress.com/2010/07/09/starbucks-free-wifi/3.	Technology Questions:1.	How effectively can one cover their tracks?a.	IP spoofing? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IP_address_spoofingb.	MAC spoofing? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MAC_spoofingc.	Bouncing requests? http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Traceroute&oldid=450946925#Security_concerns http://www.wikihow.com/Trace-an-IP-Addressd.	Encrypted HDD?e.	Encoded images on Fickr stream?http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SteganographyGood example in “physical” section - message under a postage stamp on a letter, also has a “Digital” section, GREAT example of hidden image of cat in photo of tree.f.	Use VM with secure reset between sessions?2.	What’s the max range on a directional WiFi antenna?http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Long-range_Wi-Fi3.	Countermeasuresa.	How would agency be proactive in their searches?b.	How would rebellion counter eachMilitary Strategy Questions:1.	  Character Notes [Establishment]Chase Aldrich•	(C. “hunter”,  Aldric “old power”)•	Political leader / high-ranking agent?•	Head of agency or subcommittee over agency?•	Believes that what he is doing is right.•	Ruthless. Without conscience. Kara Moran •	K. “beloved”, M. “teacher” Hebrew•	Local reporter, trying to go national•	Popular among viewers, coworkers•	Almost ruthless, but still respects others•	Maybe she’s blackmailed or coerced to spin a story?•	Maybe she changes? More ruthless, power-hungry afterwards?Note that folks in other character notes sections have some affiliation with the rebellion, establishment, university, or café. Character Notes [Agency]Thomas Gaye •	(T. “twin”, G. “goal” Turkish)•	Agent that is sympathetic to rebellion?•	Decorated, upstanding, loyalty is unquestionedCecelia Karida •	(Cecelia latin blind, Karida Arabic pure, loyal)•	Agent that is undyingly loyal to the establishment•	At some point presented with the truth, but chooses to ignore it and maintain her allegiance with agencyDarnell Harvey •	(old eng hidden nook, french battle warrior)•	undercover agent?•	Plays pivotal role in downfall of Archie or Nick•	Develops fondness for Valarie? Romantic?Prudence Truman Harvey•	(P. “cautious, intell”, T. “trusty man”)•	 Goes by “Prue”•	Has no stinking clue that Darnell is an agent•	If he’s cheating on her with Val, has no clue about that either.Note that folks in other character notes sections have some affiliation with the rebellion, establishment, university, or café. Character Notes [Rebellion]Harold Lukman •	(H. “leader of the army”, L. “wise” Arabic)•	Prominent, wealthy, well-liked, charitable•	Leader of the rebellion (if there is such a thing) or a regional cell of rebellion•	Willing to make sacrifices, perhaps Nicholas? (or does Dorothy betray Nick?) perhaps he betrays Archie? (or does Dorothy do that?)Valarie Williams •	(V. “strong”, William “will, desire; helm”)•	Member of resistance.•	Not prone to follow orders to the letter.•	Believes a more direct assault is warranted.•	Impatient, impudent•	Introduces undercover agent (Darnell Harvey) into her cell•	Later comes to suspect Darnell, but too late to save Archie / Nick.Note that folks in other character notes sections have some affiliation with the rebellion, establishment, university, or café. Character Notes [Café]Archie Kendrick is the owner and sole proprietor of the Mad Canopy Cafe, a popular and trendy downtown coffee shop and internet café. •	“Mad Canopy Cafe" is an anagram for “Facade Company”•	“Archie Kendrick” means “very bold ruler”•	Archie aids the rebellion•	He’s has a strong “good old days” mentality, holds great respect for the original founders.•	Agents expect internet cafes to be used, don’t suspect owner•	Ultimately, Archie is arrested, sees it coming, puts his secret cell in barista’s purse (Dorothy). Rings in later chapter, pulling her into the story.•	Archie is ultimately released, but is less bold.Dorothy Hall is a barista at the Mad Canopy Cafe. She’s very fond of her boss, Archie.•	“Dorothy Hall” means “gift from god, forgiving”•	Dorothy is one of the apathetic masses, generally believing the propaganda that she hears via various media outlets.•	She has no connection with the rebellion or with the agents.•	She’s infatuated with Nick Aberthol. •	She’s ultimately an unwilling participant in the conflict.•	It’s not clear what side she will choose. Initially, she is conflicted. Tends to support rebellion, has second thoughts, betrays rebels, regrets her betrayal, ultimately chooses to side with rebelsNicholas Aberthol is a regular patron of the Mad Canopy Cafe, spending countless hours each day taking advantage of the free WiFi and cheap coffee refills. •	“Nicholas Aberthol” means “victory of the people, sacrifice”•	Nick is an active participant in the rebellion, but he’s very clever and covers his tracks very well.•	He is well liked by the patrons and employees of the cafe. Everyone knows him by name, and he knows the names of the more regular patrons.•	Dorothy has a bit of a crush on Nick. They frequently exchange flirty banter. That (combined with her fondness of Archie) may play into her decision of which side to support?•	Nick places the call to Archie’s cell, which Dorothy answers.•	Nick fosters Dorothy’s initial support for rebellion.•	Spoiler: Nick will ultimately prevail, but at the cost of his own life. Dorothy returns to rebellion just before his death.Note that folks in other character notes sections have some affiliation with the rebellion, establishment, university, or café. Character Notes [Lawyer]Eddie Hammond is a respected lawyer, friend to Archie.•	(Edmon “rich protector”, H. “home protection”)•	lawyer called upon to help archie•	doesn’t know Archie is associated with rebellion•	is a sympathizer? o	If not, betray archie at cost of disbarment?o	If so, screws up and sends prosecution incriminating work product?Jason Carthel•	“Jason” healer•	Law clerk for Archie? Law partner? Paralegal?•	Accidentally hands off incriminating work product•	Confesses to wife, Sandra who puts 2&2 together and warns Nick to be careful•	Somehow makes his mistake rightNote that folks in other character notes sections have some affiliation with the rebellion, establishment, university, or café. Character Notes [University]Sandra Carthel•	Sandra is short form of “Cassandra” – a prophet who wasn’t believed•	Jason’s wife (duh!)•	College professor.•	Nicholas Aberthol is one of her students.•	She predicts his death, he shrugs it offZoe Asher •	Z. “life”, A. “blessed, happy”•	Another of Sandra’s students•	Works with Nicholas Aberthol on a class assignment?•	One of the ignorant masses.•	Events that happen are surprising to her.•	Perhaps life isn’t so blessed for her at book’s end?Note that folks in other character notes sections have some affiliation with the rebellion, establishment, university, or café.