---
layout: book
title: "Chapter 1"
tagline: "The Patriot"
lastReviewedOn: "2016-10-03 00:00:00 -0500"
status: draft
---

{pagebreak}

# Chapter One: The Patriot

By most standards, Darnell Harvey seemed to be a very ordinary man. It was his job to be ordinary, though – to blend in, never drawing attention. 

To his family and friends, Darnell was known as a somewhat stoic and stodgy claims adjuster. His job kept him on the road a great deal. 

At social gatherings, few would inquire about his work for fear that he might actually engage them with stories involving obscure details of corporate insurance coverage and how they relate to his investigations of fraudulent claims.

When he isn't traveling for work, Darnell's morning routine is very well scripted. 

At precisely 5:30 AM, the alarm clock on his nightstand interrupts his sleeping-pill-induced slumber. Several rounds of pressing the snooze button follow, almost as if he is engaged in negotiations with the insistent little creature.

After a quick shave and shower, he skims the day's headlines on his iPad over coffee and a microwaved breakfast burrito. A short time later, he dons the armor of a white collar worker. 

With his hair neatly parted, and tie smartly straightened, he gives his sleeping wife, Prudence, a peck on the forehead before grabbing his keys and laptop folio on his way out the door. 

Darnell's commute is short, and there's rarely more than sporadic traffic this time of the morning. Another benefit of his early schedule is that he is able to park very near the entrance of MIGCO, the multinational insurance corporation that was, as it seemed to most, his second home. While clean, sleek, and modern, there wasn't really anything notable about the tower that housed MIGCO's corporate offices. 

Darnell passed through the large revolving door at the entrance to the building, casually greeted the lobby guard whose name he could never recall, and made his way to the elevators.

Several more workers entered the elevator lobby after Darnell, but they didn't have to wait very long before hearing the familiar ding that announced the arrival of their chariot. 

Darnell's was one of a half-dozen hands reaching for the numbered buttons on either side of the elevator. Pressing the button for the fifteenth floor, he made his way to the rear of the car so that the other passengers would be able to get out on their designated floors ahead of him.

The buttons for the floors were numbered one though fifteen, but the astute observer would notice that there was no button labeled thirteen. Darnell always found it strange that such a silly superstition persisted to this day.

One by one, the elevator delivered its passengers. Depending on which department was housed on that particular floor, rows of offices or seas of cubicles were visible each time the doors opened. The same was not true of the fifteenth floor, though.

The doors parted once again as the car stopped at the top floor to deliver its last passenger. Darnell was greeted by another lobby and another guard. 

Unlike the guard on the ground floor, Darnell knew this burly giant very well. Each greeted the other by name, with a smile and a nod, followed by a brief chat about the previous night's game as Darnell approached the secure door to swipe his badge.

After passing through the portal, Darnell didn't have far to walk to get to his office. He stacked the things that he had carried from his car on the corner of his desk and sat down to log into his computer. 

While none of his friends or family had reason to suspect Darnell was anything other than a claims adjuster for a huge insurance firm, he was, in fact, an agent of the Department of Homeland Security. 

His group was a covert agency under DHS that dealt exclusively with the recent upswing in domestic cyber-terrorism attacks. Darnell was an expert in cryptography and he was an accomplished software developer with an impressive resume – a resume that no one outside of the agency would ever see.

Darnell's was one of dozens of groups across the country that was tasked with identifying, tracking, and, if possible, infiltrating local terrorist cells. While there were several agents who had somewhat-reliable sources and a handful of agents who had informants, no one in Darnell's office had actually infiltrated a cell.

His group was responsible for bringing down countless terrorist cells and thwarting dozens of large-scale attacks on our nation's infrastructure. His service record included many commendations and citations. It wasn't credit or recognition that he sought, though. 

Darnell considered it an honor to serve his country, but he found it hard to live this double life. The constant lying and deception to his wife and best friend, Prudence, ate away at his morale. 

A close second in his lists of reasons to desire a change in careers was the fact that he had to stay abreast of the policies and benefits of the insurance corporation that occupied the lower floors of the building. His cover had to be authentic. And that meant countless hours of training and study for a field in which he had absolutely no interest.

After a half hour of sifting through emails from the previous day, Darnell's coworker and fellow agent, Cecelia Karida, quickly popped her head into his office to greet him and to drop a casual reminder of the staff meeting at eight o'clock – something his computer had reminded him of just seconds earlier. He returned the greeting, thanked her, and then she was on her way.

Although he couldn't quite express why, Darnell never felt completely at ease around Cecelia. She was great at her job. She was exceedingly loyal to the cause. She had an amenable personality. She carried the same burdens as Darnell that being a covert agent entailed. By all rights, they should have been fast friends. 

Maybe it was the overzealous ambition he sensed in her that put Darnell off. Maybe he couldn't fully understand the ease with which she could don either of her life's masks on a whim. Maybe it was something else entirely – just a gut feeling – something that could never be fully quantified. Whatever it was, Darnell never had the trust in Cecelia that he had in other agents.

Unfortunately, there was plenty of time before the staff meeting for Darnell to brush up on some materials and videos from a conference that his alter ego, the claims adjuster, attended recently. As much as he hated to pass the time with unintelligible mumbo jumbo, he realized its importance to his cover. 

Thankfully, eight o'clock came much faster than he anticipated. Darnell grabbed his notepad and pen and headed towards the conference room. On his way to the meeting, he nearly ran into another agent, Thomas Gaye, as Tom was exiting his office.

"Sorry, Tom. You have to be careful around me. You know how much I enjoy staff meetings," Darnell apologized with a little humor – very little.

If Cecelia was on one end of Darnell's spectrum of trust and admiration, Tom was on the other. His respect for Tom fell just short of hero worship. 

Tom was the most senior of the agents, had the most impressive list of citations, and was somewhat of a mentor to Darnell. More so earlier in his career, when Darnell was just a rookie, but he felt there was still much that he could learn from Tom.

As Darnell and Tom entered the room, Cecelia and several of the other agents were taking seats around the table. A short time later, the head of the agency, Chase Aldrich, entered the room without the slightest fanfare.

Director Aldrich opened the meeting saying, "Three-and-a-half years ago, the rebellion lead an insurrection that was quickly put down. Many lost their lives in the conflict, but, thankfully, the rebels realized the futility of engaging our military directly."

"While their actions have been damaging and disruptive, there have been no known acts of violence against the military or the general population linked to the rebellion since that initial uprising. They have targeted our infrastructure, our technology."

"Ladies and gentlemen, we have actionable intelligence that the rebels are about to up their game." 

"We have intercepted communiqués in recent days that indicate the rebels intend to strike a physical target within our city some time in the next two weeks." 

"At this time, details are limited. We don't know if the target will be military or civilian. In fact, we can't say for certain that there will only be a single target involved in this new attack."

"I know that this marks a stark departure from their past M.O., but the intelligence folks have high confidence that there is a clear and imminent risk of attack. The rebels have clearly become desperate."

"Agents Harvey and Gaye, I need you to accompany local law enforcement this morning as they execute a search warrant on a suspected terrorist cell. It's your job to make sure that we don't lose any data during the raid. Report to the 5th Street precinct Desk Sergeant immediately following this meeting."

"I cannot overstate the gravity of these developments. I need all of you to use the influence you have over your sources to ferret out whatever information you can. This is a serious development and we can't afford to leave any stone unturned."

"Unless there are any questions, I suggest that you get to work."

After a brief pause, Director Aldrich folded his journal and left the room as he had entered. All the attending agents immediately returned to their offices to begin work on their new orders.

Darnell and Tom met briefly in Tom's office before heading out to join the local law enforcement in their execution of the warrant.
