---
layout: book
title: "Chapter 2"
tagline: "The Raid"
lastReviewedOn: "2016-10-03 00:00:00 -0500"
status: draft
---

{pagebreak}

# Chapter Two: The Raid

Tom and Darnell reported to the Desk Sergeant, as ordered. In short shrift they were suited up and had joined the uniformed officers for the pre-raid briefing. 

Their gear matched that of the local law enforcement personnel, from the vests and helmets that protected their vital organs to the balaclavas that protected their identities. In fact, the only notable difference, other than their sidearms, was that the SWAT team members wore fingerless black leather gloves whereas Tom and Darnell wore black nitrile exam gloves.

The briefing was fast-paced. It was clear that this was just another day at the office for these professionals. The role that Tom and Darnell were to play was mentioned along with the mission details. 

It was the job of SWAT to clear each room of the residence, and the two DHS agents were tasked with securing any devices that were discovered on site.

After rallying in the parking deck, the teams loaded into several clearly marked SWAT vehicles and were on their way to the target residence within a few short minutes. 

Their destination was close, which gave Darnell some comfort. He wasn't in his element at all. The longer drive, the more time he was given to think of all the things that could go wrong with an operation like this.

Darnell was at home behind his keyboard, or when interacting with the rebel contacts that he had made. The frantic pace of this mission and the long list of variables caused his stomach to churn. 

Tom seemed at ease, though. And somehow, that helped Darnell to avoid the panic that wanted so badly to well up from deep within.

The vehicles assembled several houses away from the target. Less than a minute passed before the call came across the radio headsets to, "Go! Go! Go!" The doors on the back of the van were thrown open and all of the men filed out of the vehicle in rows of two.

Tom and Darnell followed closely behind the SWAT members. Once the officers had entered the residence, each room was breached and announced to be, "Clear!" After the final room was found to be unoccupied, the commander of the operation motioned for Tom and Darnell to enter the residence.

Once inside, Tom and Darnell surveyed the house, room by room. Aside from a couch and television in the living room, all but one room was empty. 

The master bedroom was half-filled with racks of servers, along with a dozen or so desktop and laptop computers on two folding buffet tables. 

There were extension cords running from outlets in several of the other rooms under the door into this bedroom, and there was an air conditioner blowing in the far window. This was clearly a makeshift server room.

The monitors for all but one of the desktops were dark, obviously in power-saving mode. That one desktop was actively being controlled remotely. The mouse occasionally darted across the screen, and commands were being entered into an open terminal.

Darnell moved in for a closer look. At the same time, the officer who had breached the room turned to leave. As he turned, his gear bumped one of the tables slightly. Two of the six computers awoke from their slumber, their mice having been sufficiently disturbed.

After casting a panicked glance towards Tom, Darnell focused his attention back to the computer that was being remotely controlled.

All activity had ceased. A short time later, all the windows that were open suddenly minimized. The mouse moved over one of the icons on the desktop. In an instant, every computer and server in the room sprang to life. 

"Crap!" said Tom, "They're purging the data! Unplug everything! Now!"

In a mad rush, Tom, Darnell, and the startled officer were on their hands and knees, pulling cords from every outlet, and unplugging the extension cords from the server rack.

When the task was complete and the adrenaline rush had subsided, the officer repeatedly and earnestly apologized. 

Tom tried to set the officer's mind at ease. Although he was clearly irritated, there was nothing that could be done to change things now. Tom knew that beating this poor kid up over his mistake wouldn't make a lick of difference.

"It's going to be okay," said Tom. "It takes a while to securely purge data from a hard drive. Our computer forensics team should be able to pull almost everything from the disks."

Soon after the chaos, uniformed officers and crime scene techs arrived to secure the residence and collect the evidence. 

There was nothing else that Darnell and Tom could do here. They returned to the station with their SWAT companions, changed out of their raiding gear, and headed back to MIGCO to file their report of the operation.
