---
layout: book
title: "Chapter 3"
tagline: "The Mad Canopy Café"
lastReviewedOn: "2016-10-03 00:00:00 -0500"
status: draft
---

{pagebreak}

# Chapter Three: The Mad Canopy Café

It was just another day at the Mad Canopy Café, a popular and trendy downtown coffee shop and cybercafe. Part-time barista and fulltime student, Dorothy Hall has worked here since she started school two years ago. Only her mother calls her Dorothy, though. Around the café and campus, she is known as Dot.

Dot knows that her long-term career goals would be better served by taking an internship with a graphic design shop, but there's something comforting about the café. She feels at home, immersed in her routine, surrounded by familiar faces. She has a good rapport with her coworkers, she enjoys interacting with the customers, and she's especially fond of her boss, Archie.

"Nick!" shouted several of the café patrons and staff, almost in unison. The exclamation was a cheesy homage to the 1980's television show, Cheers, but it demonstrated the genuine fondness that the regular patrons had for Nicholas Aberthol. 

As was his customary, if not reflexive, response, Nick replied with a simple, "Yo." He followed up the monosyllabic blanket acknowledgement with a series of one-on-one interactions targeting a half dozen or so of the customers, moving from one table to the next brandishing a smile, a handshake, and making deliberate eye contact as he engaged each person, by name, in the small talk that he knew was expected. 

Seeing Nick work the crowd, a casual observer would assume that he was the owner of the establishment. Nick spent much more time at the café than his own apartment, but he was, in fact, just another customer taking advantage of the free WiFi and cheap coffee refills. 

Nick was a fulltime student at the same university that Dot attended. While they shared a couple of classes, the auditoriums were especially large and crowded. It was here, at the café, that Nick and Dot had most of their interactions – typically in the form of flirty banter. 

"Hey, Dee. You got anything tall and hot?" asked Nick, once he had made his way through the patrons.

"Yep, but he hasn't ordered anything yet," replied Dot with a smile. She was as impressed with her quick-witted response as she was embarrassed that she had said something so bold.

Dot had a secret crush on Nick, but, as with her job, she was unwilling to take the risks that might lead to changes in her comfortable routine. Besides, she held to the old fashioned notion that girls just do not ask boys out. Period.

Nick had his coffee in quick order and began to set up his laptop near his usual seat, which happened to be occupied this morning. While his computer was starting up, he pulled out his smartphone to crush some candies in his favorite puzzle game. 

It didn't take long for Nick to exhaust his lives in the game. He switched to the music app, plugged in his headphones, and started what was sure to be a long day of alternating between school work and stalking his friends on various social media sites.

When Dot wasn't filling orders or wiping down her station, she would catch herself stealing glances at Nick. She was clearly smitten. It was during one of these absent-minded moments that her boss, Archie Kendrick, decided to come from his office in the back of the store to check on the café. 

"You should ask him out," prodded Archie, "He's a good boy."

Dot began wiping her already-clean station. "I was just looking to see if the tables needed to be wiped down," she said, a little flustered and embarrassed. Just then, one of Archie's friends walked in, diverting his attention from the light-hearted ribbing he was giving his favorite employee.

"Eddie!" Archie called out as he walked from behind the counter to greet his friend, shaking hands with his right and reaching around for a hug with his left. Edmon Hammond was a successful and respected attorney who ran his own private practice from an office just a couple of blocks from the café.

Archie first met Eddie when he was looking for a lawyer to set up his business as an LLC. During the process, the two hit it off. It turned out that both had served in the military, and both had been assigned to many of the same locations abroad, albeit at different times. They came from very different backgrounds, but they had a lot in common.

"Would you like the usual, Mr. Hammond?" asked Dot as Archie and Eddie approached the bar.

"Yes, please. How are you this fine day, Dot?"

"Better than I deserve," she replied with a smile.

Archie and Eddie continued with their idle chitchat as Dot prepared a large mocha with extra whip and chocolate drizzle. Eddie cut the conversation short as Dot handed him his drink. 

"There are the clients that I'm meeting," said Eddie nodding towards the couple entering the café. "It's been nice seeing you, Archie."

"Likewise, old friend. Until next time!"

With that exchange, Eddie took his leave to greet the couple and offer to buy them a drink before they seated themselves at one of the empty tables to conduct their business. 

"Don't think I've forgotten about you, young lady. If you don't ask that boy out, I just might have to do it for you," Archie goaded Dot.

"Mr. Kendrick!" she replied, with a blush.

Once again, Archie's attention was diverted from Dot as he caught a glimpse of the breaking news footage on the TV mounted in the café. He couldn't make out the dialog from this distance, but he instantly recognized the reporter as Kara Moran, a local anchor. More importantly, though, he recognized the house that provided her backdrop. It was one of his rental properties.

Several of the patrons had also stopped their conversations to watch the breaking news – including Nick, who glanced up from his keyboard for the first time since sitting down.

Dot didn't pay the broadcast any attention. Partly because of her embarrassment over her earlier exchange with Archie, but mostly because a customer had just approached the register. As she was taking his order, two uniformed officers entered the café and approached the counter.

Archie walked past Dot, stepping in front of the counter to greet the pair. "Good morning, officers," said Archie, "What can we get you this morning?"

"Archibald Kendrick?" asked one of the policemen.

"The one and only! But, please, call me, ‘Archie'."

"We need to ask you a few questions. Is there some place more private that we could talk?" queried the officer.

"Certainly. Certainly. Please, follow me to my office," responded Archie as he waved his hand toward the back of the café and started to walk in that direction.
