---
layout: book
title: "Chapter 5"
tagline: "The Interrogation"
lastReviewedOn: "2016-10-03 00:00:00 -0500"
status: draft
---

{pagebreak}

# Chapter Five: The Interrogation

"I assume you're here about my rental property?" asked Archie as he closed the door to his office and the two officers took seats in front of his desk. Archie walked around his desk to take a seat as well.

"Yes," replied one officer while the other took out a notepad and pen. "How did you know?"

"Ms. Moran, the news lady was just on the TV standing in front of the house," replied Archie. "I assume something happened there, but you two walked into the café just as the report was airing, so I didn't get the details. What happened?"

"If you'll bear with me, I need to ask you some questions first," the officer responded. "When we're done here, I'll answer any questions that you may still have."

"You say it's a rental property. Can you tell me the name of the current tenant?" asked the officer.

"Steven Jones is his name. He's a student at the university. It's my understanding that he sublets the house to several other students, but I deal directly with Steven," said Archie.

"How long has Mr. Jones been leasing the property from you?" queried the officer.

"Around six months, I believe," replied Archie as he turned his chair away from the officers to open his filing cabinet. "I should have the rental agreement here. Ah, yes. Here it is."

Archie spun back around, placing the paper on his desk and lowering his reading glasses from the top of his head to inspect the document. "Yes. Just a couple of days shy of six months."

"He's a good kid. He comes to the café every month to personally deliver his rent. He's never been late with a payment the entire time, and whenever I drive by the property, I see that he keeps the lawn in good order. I wish all my tenants were like Steven," added Archie.

"In addition to the rental agreement, do you have an application on file for Mr. Jones?" the officer asked.

"I do," replied Archie, spinning back around to grab the entire file folder from the cabinet this time. "Yes. Here it is."

"May I?" asked the officer extending a hand towards the file on Archie's desk.

"Certainly," replied Archie replacing the two documents he had removed, closing the folder, and handing it to the officer.

The officer leafed through the documents, pausing infrequently. "I don't see a credit application here," he noted.

"No. Steven paid in cash. Three months up front, and the equivalent of another month as a security deposit," Archie explained. "I assumed a student would have poor or no credit. So I asked for the large deposit in lieu of a credit application."

"I see that Mr. Jones listed a reference on his application. Did you contact that reference before leasing the property?" the officer asked, looking up from the open folder.

"I sure did. That's the main reason I rented to Steven. His previous landlord had nothing but praise for him, and my experience has only reinforced that. I would gladly recommend Steven to his next landlord if he was to move out," Archie replied.

"May we take this documentation?" asked the officer.

"Sure. Just let me make a copy first," replied Archie, retrieving the folder and spinning back around to his all-in-one printer and copier. In no time, the documents had been duplicated and found a home in a new folder. 

Archie quickly labeled the new folder, returned the original documents to his filing cabinet, and handed the copies to the officer.

"I have one last question. You mentioned that Mr. Jones makes his payments to you here at the café. When does he do that?" queried the officer.

"Well, I expect he'll be by the café tomorrow. He usually drops in around 2PM," Archie responded.

Out in the café, Eddie's concern for his friend is distracting him from the meeting that he's having with his new clients. He excuses himself and makes his way towards the back of the café.

As he approaches the office door, he knocks gently and awaits a response. "Come in!" said Archie a few seconds from the last of the raps.

"Hello, gentlemen. I'm Edmon Hammond, Mr. Kendrick's attorney. Do I need to be present?" asked Eddie quickly popping his head in the door.

"No, sir. I think we're done here," replied the officer. "Thank you for your time, Mr. Kendrick. We'll be in touch if we have any more questions."

With that, both officers stood to leave.

"Before you go," interjected Archie, "I have to ask. Is Steven OK? Has he done anything wrong? It's not every day that I see one of my properties on the news, surrounded by crime scene tape."

"The investigation is ongoing," responded the officer. "All I can tell you is that your property may have been used for criminal activities and that the whereabouts of Mr. Jones are unknown at this time."

The officers exit the office, then the café.

Archie fills Eddie in on the details of the conversation that he just had with the police.

"Dammit, Archie. You should have called me," chided Eddie.  You have my number. Heck, I was just 30 feet from you the whole time. I don't care if it's day or night. Call me. You can't just blab away without your attorney present." 

"This could be serious. What if you're liable for the criminal activities of your tenants? It wouldn't be unprecedented, especially if it's a drug-related crime."

Archie didn't like being addressed like a child who was just caught playing daredevil down his parent's driveway into the street, but he knew Eddie was right.

"I'm sorry to be so blunt, old friend," added Eddie, sensing Archie's embarrassment. "I just don't want to see you get pulled into something like this. I know you always do the right thing. Especially when it comes to others. You just need to do what's right for you, too."

"I really need to get back to my clients in the café," said Eddie. "Are we good?"

"Yeah. I know you're right," conceded Archie. "Thanks for looking out for me, old friend."

Eddie left the office to return to his clients, followed shortly by Archie.

"Is everything OK, Mr. Kendrick?" asked Dot as Archie approached the counter.

"What? Oh. Yes. Everything's just fine," said Archie. "Just a little issue with one of my rental properties. Nothing to worry about, though."
