---
layout: book
title: "Chapter 6"
tagline: "The Law Office"
lastReviewedOn: "2016-10-03 00:00:00 -0500"
status: draft
---

{pagebreak}

# Chapter Six: The Law Office

Having wrapped up his consultation with the couple at the café, Eddie returned to his office. He was greeted by his paralegal and personal assistant, Jason Carthel.

Jason had worked with Eddie for several years. He initially became a paralegal to test the waters and see if he wanted to pursue a career as a lawyer. The longer he worked as a paralegal, though, the more he realized that this was the career that he wanted. He was content working for this small firm in his current role, and he didn’t have any intention of returning to school. At least he didn’t intend to study to be a lawyer.

His wife, Sandra, was a professor at the local university. He could attend classes for free up to a certain number of hours, and at half-price for any hours above that. Jason toyed with the idea of getting a bachelor’s degree in Criminal Justice to supplement his current paralegal certification. But there was nothing to motivate him to change. He truly enjoyed his current position.

“Jason, I have a research project for you,” said Eddie as he walked up to Jason’s desk. “I need to know if there is any legal precedent for holding a landlord liable for the actions of his tenants.”

“Sure thing, Mr. Hammond. Is this for a current case?”

“No. It’s a personal matter that I’m looking into for a friend. So far, there’s been no action taken against him. I’m just trying to be proactive.”

“Is there a particular criminal activity that you would like me to focus my research on?” asked Jason.

“No. I don’t really have any details at this time. Just run a few scenarios: manufacturing and distributing drugs, dealing in stolen goods, sexual misconduct, whatever. Let me know what you find -  statute or case precedent. I need to know how insulated or exposed a landlord can be.”

After their exchange, Eddie walked into his office to work on his backlog of tasks for other clients while Jason began to research his new assignment.

Eddie sat in a plush leather executive chair behind an ornate mahogany desk. He was always well-dressed. Expensive suits, a high-end watch, and a couple of flashy rings were the norm. Neither of the rings was a wedding band, though.

Eddie was married to his practice, and its success was of paramount importance to him. He rarely lost a case. Mostly due to his skill as an attorney and the sheer number of hours he had spent honing his craft, but Eddie was also very selective about which clients he represented. In the courtroom and in life, he doesn’t like to lose. And, in both areas, he rarely feels failure’s sting.

His current social status is a stark contrast to his meager beginnings. Eddie was born into a relatively poor family. From the days of his youth, through his time in the military, he would have been considered lower-middle class at best. 

After three tours abroad, Eddie decided it was time for a change. Leaving the military, he entered law school. It was then that his fortune began to change. He had found his true calling.

His practice is very successful, generating substantial revenue for its proprietor. Although appearances would indicate otherwise, Eddie’s financial situation is less than ideal. He has a compulsive habit of spending more than he makes. His luxury condo has multiple mortgages, his sports car is leased, and the remainder of his other assets are just as heavily leveraged.

There may come a time when his proclivity towards the extravagant undoes all he has worked to attain. But that day of reckoning, at least in his Eddie’s mind, is too far away to fret over. For now, there’s no shortage of work to be done.

Eddie reaches for the top folder in a stack of established and prospective cases that require his attention. They have been prioritized by Jason in a well-established and practiced manner, directed by Eddie.

After a quick glance at the first page, Eddie turns to push the button on his single-serve coffee maker, spinning back to continue his review of the file on his desk. Moments later, the familiar whoosh of the final drops of coffee emanates from the machine. At the cafe, Eddie indulges in fancier fare. But here, in his office, he maintains his focus and energy via the caffeine of a simple, black coffee.

The newly-acquired case before Eddie captured his attention.

------- Why? Where the heck am I headed here?  ------

•	[More crap here.]
•	Papers ultimately sent to prosecutor on request. Notices the “facade company” note. Oops.
•	Eddie is pissed. Reputation based on winning cases and keeping client information confidential! Nearly fires (or does fire) Jason.Eddie is pissed. His reputation is based on winning cases and keeping his clients’ information confidential. If prospective clients don’t have confidence in his ability to keep …
•	[More crap here.]
•	Jason mentions it to his wife, Sandra – Nick and Dot’s teacher. Seed is planted for later warning to Nick.
