---
layout: book
title: "Chapter 7"
tagline: "The Sting"
lastReviewedOn: "2016-10-03 00:00:00 -0500"
status: draft
---

{pagebreak}

# Chapter Seven: The Sting

Back at MIGCO, Darnell and Tom are briefed on the status of the investigation after yesterday's raid.

"There was no Steven Jones enrolled at the university that Archibald Kendrick mentioned," said Jamie, a rookie forensics investigator. "In fact, there is no Steven Jones currently enrolled at any university, junior college, or trade school within a 50 mile radius."

"Unfortunately, the application for the leased property didn't include a middle name or initial, so we weren't able to narrow the search. There are 20 men named Steven Jones in this area, but none fit the description offered by Mr. Kendrick, and we've verified the primary residence of each."

"Forensics is still sifting through the data from the raid. They haven't turned anything up yet. It looks like most of the servers were used as nodes for an anonymizing network service. The logs were flushed almost as soon as they were populated, so there wasn't a lot of data to retrieve. We have little confidence that we'll ever be able to determine what was sent, where it was destined, or where it originated," added Jamie.

"There is one bit of good news that came from our analysis of the servers, though. Now that we know how they're delivering their communications between cells, we can use the same technology when we're ready to make our own ‘rebel' communications. That should add an air of authenticity to our messages."

"Our analysis of the desktops and laptops is ongoing, but so far we have discovered a program that the rebels use to encrypt and decrypt their messages."

"The messages are ultimately encoded into digital photographs, and we believe that they're using social media sites to hide their communications in plain sight."

"We're developing a service to scan photographs and analyze them for embedded messages, but without knowing which sites and accounts are being used, we basically have to crawl the internet like a search engine does. It's like looking for a needle in a haystack."

"That's all the information that I have at this time."

The investigator concluded the briefing by saying, "Mr. Jones is slated to pay his rent at the Mad Canopy Café this afternoon, around 2PM. It's a long shot, but we have to do our due diligence. Director Aldrich wants Agent Harvey to be at the café to provide surveillance starting at 10 o'clock this morning."

Tom and Darnell return to their offices.

Darnell can't help thinking that this whole series of events doesn't make any sense. Students don't fit the profile for rebel activity. Rebels are supposed to be older white males. Could the rebellion be attracting a younger audience? Could Archibald Kendrick be lying about his tenant?

He decides to head over to the café a little early. Grabbing his laptop and iPad, Darnell heads towards the MIGCO parking lot. Once he is seated in his car, off come the coat, tie, and ID badge. No need to attract attention at the café. 

When he arrives at the café, Darnell sets up his temporary office in one of the two-seat booths near an electrical outlet. He doesn't announce himself to Archie. He's not yet sure that Archie isn't more involved than he's letting on.

After booting up and connecting to the WiFi, Darnell gets a tall cup of coffee and sits back down at the booth. Before too long, Darnell's attention is drawn to the entrance of the café as he hears several patrons and staff shout, "Nick!"

The young man works the crowd like a politician, then sets up his laptop at a table very near Darnell before heading to the counter to flirt with the barista and order a drink.

As minutes turn to hours, patrons enter and exit the café in a rhythmic ebb and flow. Archie makes several appearances, but he's never in the café for long before returning to his office. Even some of the service staff had changed guard around lunchtime. The only constants were Darnell and Nick, who both appear to be glued to their seats. 

Darnell is able to see Nick's screen, and he casts a glance in that direction every now and then. He sees nothing notable. Nick keeps switching between several social media sites, what looks to be the website for the local university, and a popular search engine. It looks like he's doing research for a term paper or something – at least it looks that way when he's not goofing off.

Darnell has been using this time to research that anonymizing service that he was briefed on this morning. It seems to be technology that sprang up from naval research into something called onion routing.

Network packets are moved from sender to receiver via a random route across a large group of relaying nodes. Each node is only aware of the next node (to send the request) and previous node (to send the response) in the path. Those extra, anonymous hops make it practically impossible to trace a request from a server back to its source. 

From the destination server, it appears that the request originated from the last of the random nodes. Any one observing the request from the client would think that the request was destined for the first random node.

Two o'clock came and went without incident. Shortly after two, though, Darnell noticed a uniformed officer enter the café and walk up to the counter. He didn't pay it much attention, assuming the officer was just another patron. But this patron didn't order anything. He just chatted with the barista and kept looking around the café and towards its entrance.

*Crap*, thought Darnell. *That must be one of the investigators. He's going to spook the suspect. Overzealous fool!*

Darnell had been communicating with Tom via instant messenger sporadically during the day. He brought the chat window into focus and was in the middle of typing a description of the events to send to Tom when the officer wrapped up his conversation with the barista and headed towards the door.

After the officer exited the café and walked away, Darnell deleted the unsent message. He decided to use the interruption to stretch his legs and get another coffee.

The next three hours passed just as the previous four had – without incident, and without Steven Jones.

Darnell wasn't surprised, but he was a little disappointed. Did the cop scare the suspect away? Was the suspect never going to show up, knowing that his little server room had been discovered and dismantled? Was there even a Steven Jones to expect, or had Archibald Kendrick used a fictional tenant to hide his own activities?

Whatever the reality, there was nothing more that Darnell could do here. He packed up his belongings and vacated his seat.

Back in his car, Darnell put his tie back on. The coat and ID badge could wait until he returned to MIGCO. 

Traffic was heavier than he anticipated. He arrived back at the office just before 6 PM, parking in his usual spot. After filing his report of the day's events, Darnell left the office and headed home.
