---
layout: book
title: "Chapter 8"
tagline: "The University"
lastReviewedOn: "2016-10-03 00:00:00 -0500"
status: placeholder
---

{pagebreak}

# Chapter Eight: The University

Sandra Carthel was a tenured professor at a local university. Her speech course was one of two classes that Nick and Dot shared. As was the case with most of the core subjects at the university, the lecture hall was packed with students seated in tiered rows of desks.

Sandra taught several liberal arts courses. While her classes tended to be large, she tried her best to understand the needs of each student, tailoring her classes to address the whole and her office hours to address the individual. Of course, many of the students preferred to remain anonymous. That just made her job a little easier.

Nick was one of the more involved students, though. She had a closer rapport with him than most of the others. That was the type of interaction that drove her to teaching in the first place. She truly felt that she was able to make a difference in these kids’ lives.

Today’s assignment was an especially interesting one. The students were to pair up and prepare a speech to defend an indefensible topic. They had to become a proponent of a position that they found repugnant, and then defend that position with the same vigor with which they would normally oppose it.

Each team of two was to work together to prepare the defense, and then elect one of the teammates to present the argument to the entire class next week. Dot immediately thought about asking Nick to be her partner for the project, but Professor Carthel put a kink in that plan when she continued the instructions by saying that the teams had already been selected. “You will find your teammate listed on one of the sheets of paper taped next to the whiteboard at the front of the class,” said Sandra. “You’ll need to research your chosen topic a little deeper than your presentation, though. After giving your initial arguments, you’ll have to defend them as you engage the class in a question and answer session.”

“Your grade will be based on the difficulty of defending the chosen topic, the veracity of your defense, and the vigor with which you argue your case.” “There are two quotes, from a baroque prose writer and philosopher named Baltasar Gracián, which I would like you to keep in mind as you work through this assignment.”

A wise man gets more use from his enemies than a fool from his friends.Don't take the wrong side of an argument just because your opponent has taken the right side.

Sandra concluded her instructions by saying, “I want you do dig into the subject. See things through the eyes of your opponent. Only then can you fully understand and defend your own positions.”

- [More Crap Here?]

After class, the students lined up to see who their teammate was for the project. Dot scanned the list for her name, and was disappointed to find that Nick was paired with another student. Nick was skimming one of the other sheets when he saw Dot’s name. He tapped her on the arm and said, “Hey, Dee. Your name is over here.

”Dot told Nick that his name was on the list that she was searching. They switched places to see who their teammates were. Nick was paired with Zoe Asher and Dot was paired with Wendy Jones. Neither Nick nor Dot was familiar with their teammate. That was as intended – this exercise had a secondary goal of getting the students more involved in the class, to have them interact with each other.

“Dee, we’re probably going to do most of our work at the café anyway. You want to meet as a foursome? Maybe we can come up with more interesting topics as a larger group,” Nick proposed.

“Sure!” Dot replied, hoping she didn’t sound too excited.

- [More crap here.]
