---
layout: book
title: "Chapter 9"
tagline: "The Search for Needles"
lastReviewedOn: "2016-10-03 00:00:00 -0500"
status: placeholder
---

{pagebreak}

# Chapter Nine: The Search for Needles

It was a new day at MIGCO. A new day that, thanks to the young forensics investigator, Jamie, would start with fresh leads.

“We wrapped up our analysis of the desktops and laptops from the raid,” said Jamie. “We have dozens, if not hundreds, of encoded images. And we now know how to decode them.”

“We have a script processing each of the images now. As they’re decoded, we’re posting the resulting images to the network for you to review,” he added. “Bear in mind that some of the images that we’ve identified may not contain encoded data. If that’s the case, you should just see static in the resulting image.”

“Excellent work, Jamie!” said Darnell. “Tom and I will start following up on those leads immediately.

”After settling into his morning routine, Darnell walked over to Tom’s office and filled him in on the morning’s news. They planned how best to coordinate their efforts. One thing was for sure. Today would be spent sifting through images. Inspecting each image was actually a trivial task. If the image was made of generally random black and white dots, there was no message to find. In contrast, the images that contained messages were as readable as printed text. The content of the messages was cryptic, though. As each image was inspected, it was moved to one of two subdirectories, to be ignored or examined more closely.

Newly decoded images appeared in the network share faster than Tom and Darnell could move the images. It seemed like a never-ending task.

Darnell recalled what the young forensics technician had said in the earlier briefing on the raid.

> ... We believe that they’re using social media sites to hide their communications in plain sight ... Without knowing which sites and accounts are being used ... It’s like looking for a needle in a haystack.

A haystack the size of Antarctica, thought Darnell. Partly to rest his mouse hand, but mostly to preserve his sanity, Darnell would pause to read a message every now and then. The text seemed to be gibberish, but he knew there was a pattern. That was his area of expertise – cryptography. He knew it would take time to decipher the messages, but he had every confidence that the images would eventually reveal their secrets.

It was during one of those breaks that Darnell decided to use a reverse image search engine on a few of the samples to see if the fates would smile on him. As it so happened, they did. Two of the twenty or so sample images he uploaded were matched on a photo sharing website.

He still didn’t know what secrets the images held, but he knew at least one of the hubs where they were being shared. It was then that he thought back to the research he had done while waiting for Steven Jones to enter the café.

> Network packets are moved from sender to receiver via a random route across a large group of relaying nodes ... Those extra, anonymous hops make it practically impossible to trace a request from a server back to its source. From the destination server, it appears that the request originated from the last of the random nodes. Any one observing the request from the client would think that the request was destined for the first random node.

“That’s it!” he said aloud, to his empty office.

Darnell made his way to Jamie’s lab at a somewhat hurried pace. Now standing at the young technician’s cubicle, he didn’t bother with formalities, “I don’t need to trace the path from the sender to the server. What I really need to know is who is sending the data, not the route that the data took, right?”

“Um. Yeah. But how...” Jamie didn’t get to finish his thought before Darnell described his plan.

“We can monitor the logs at the server for posts to a specific page. And we can monitor the connections from the clients of the most likely source ISPs, starting with the provider that was used at the house that we raided,” said Darnell excitedly.

“I assume you know which server to monitor, and the specific page on that server?” asked Jamie.

“Yep. I just discovered several of the messages that you uncovered on a photo sharing site,” replied Darnell.

Jamie raised another concern. “You would still need to know when to monitor the connections. We can’t just collect data for days or weeks, that’s just too much information to store and analyze.”

“As luck would have it, there’s a pattern to the postings. They happen daily at around 4PM,” Darnell responded.

“It sounds like a great plan,” said Jamie. “But, it will mean coordinating with several big companies that don’t like to expose their customers’ private data. How can we get them to buy into the execution?”

“Ever since the terrorist attacks in 2001, the law has provided broad powers for enforcement agencies to get information from internet service providers, especially when there is reason to suspect danger to ‘life and limb’,” said Darnell. “I think a plot to attack a physical target meets that criterion, and I’m I sure that we can find a judge who agrees and is willing to issue a subpoena.”

“I’m not sure what power we have to compel a private corporation like the photo sharing site to help us, though,” Darnell continued. “I believe those same laws allow a district court judge to issue surveillance orders under the same conditions. So, we should be covered on both ends.”

“Can you make this happen?” asked Darnell.

After a little thought, Jamie responded. “I’ll get right on it. Just send me the information you have on the site, and which ISPs you think we should involve in the operation.”

- Tracks down leads, one of which is the physical attack
- In later chapter: Turns out to be decoy messages. All of them. Discovered in later chapter. Director decides to act on physical attack communication, ignoring the facts? Involves Cecelia? Forges message as authentic.
- Found the source! It’s the Mad Canopy.
- Director assigns Cecelia to message on physical attack.
