---
layout: book
title: "Chapter 10"
tagline: "The Project"
lastReviewedOn: "2016-10-03 00:00:00 -0500"
status: draft
---

{pagebreak}

# Chapter Ten: The Project

Nick, Dot, Zoe, and Wendy met at the Mad Canopy Café to discuss their teams' projects, as suggested by Nick and coordinated by Dot.

After they had ordered their drinks and staked their claim on one of the larger booths, they began brainstorming ideas for the Speech assignment – to defend an indefensible topic. 

Several great topics were suggested, but were quickly shot down as too divisive. For example, antiabortion laws came up early on, but the students agreed that the issue still had supporters on both sides, so it didn't really qualify as indefensible.

Other topics were dismissed as too controversial. For example, child pornography, while clearly indefensible, wasn't something that anyone in the group could think of a single supporting argument.

This back and forth went on for a good while. Countless ideas were dismissed by the group or recorded by Dot in her journal to be discussed further.

Zoe Asher, Nick's partner for the speech project, is a bit of a word nerd. She loves to solve crossword puzzles, to play scrabble clones on her smartphone, and she frequently engages in a variety of other lexical distractions. One such distraction, perhaps her favorite, is generating anagrams. 

This was her first time to visit the Mad Canopy Café. So, of course, she just had to play with the letters that made up the name of the establishment. As part of this play, she would draw doodles of the objects described in the shuffled letters.

It started with a "campy dance oaf" wearing a "foamy dance cap" and "candy foam cape". Next came a fluffy bear piloting a biplane after she had written, "comfy panda ace". 

One of the more insensitive combinations of letters prompted her to draw a sleepy lad wearing a turban and kneeling on a prayer mat – "a dopy Mecca fan."

Yes, Zoe was easily distracted. Coming up with a cute drawing of a "decaf pony cam" proved to be too difficult. It was then that she started paying attention to her classmates' discussion again.

From the list of topics that Dot had recorded, it sounded like Dot's team would defend third-world sweatshops and Nick's team would defend the current insurrection. Neither Zoe nor Wendy felt comfortable doing the actual presentation in front of the class, so Nick and Dot were selected to represent each of their teams.

The remainder of tonight's meeting would be spent coming up with supporting arguments for the position that Dot and Wendy were to promote. The next meeting would focus on Nick and Zoe's topic.

The group decided to list all the arguments against sweatshops, then play Devil's Advocate to counter each. At the end of the exercise, they had a list of strangely compelling arguments. 

Dot felt that she could defend her team's position in class now. The gist of their argument would be that … 

>It's a sad fact that there are parts of the world where people live in unimaginable poverty, struggling to just survive from day to day. At least it's unimaginable to most Americans, who have the highest standard of living in the world. Many in the so-called third world countries, and developing countries, don't have to imagine. It's their reality.

>Poverty has been the norm for most of human history. Wealth, not poverty, requires special explanation. The fundamentals of free markets and capitalism have proven to provide the means to raise the standard of living for all classes of people. If a baker bakes a loaf of bread and sells it to a customer, both parties benefit. 

>Of course, our system isn't a true free market. The baker likely used flour produced from wheat that benefited from agricultural subsidies, and the customer may well have been a public employee. But the principal is sound. The fact that the system isn't a pure free market doesn't make all free market arguments irrelevant.

>Sweatshop workers are impoverished people with few economic options. The reasons for their poverty vary from natural disaster to out-of-control inflation to injustice by others. Whatever the cause, low-wage labor may be their best, or their only, option for survival.

>There is one notable exception to this general assertion. If you're sinking in quicksand, I can sell you a rope for $50. It may be distasteful, but we both benefit. The exception is when I'm the one who pushed you into the quicksand in the first place. It's hard to argue in favor of the sweatshop when the limited options of the worker are a direct result of the sweatshop itself, or those who collude with them.

>The worker has a right to engage in a contract with the employer under whatever terms that they agree. Boycotting, picketing, banning, excessive regulation, exorbitant tariffs and other punitive actions often lead to the shutdown of factories, further limiting the options of the workers.

>It's not our place to interfere, no matter how distasteful we may think the conditions are. The worker is selecting the best of a slew of bad options to enable them to survive in their environment. 

>As depressing as that may be, it's also the strongest case in support of such operations. Prohibiting desperate people from accessing economic opportunities because we don't prefer the terms of the arrangement is robbing them of their only hope for a better future.

>Many times, the impoverished elect to move from rural areas to the cities where these factories offer employment on what we deem to be inequitable terms. They're not rounded up into trucks and forced into factory labor at the point of a gun. They choose to move where the jobs are. 

>In cases like China and India, people have seen their standard of living rise. They walked, often literally, out of poverty of their own accord.

>We also have to consider that money isn't just money. For a developing country, baring a corrupt infrastructure, it ultimately means safer workplaces, better schools, longer lives, and cleaner environments.

>Of course, the dynamic changes when you bring children into the equation. The trite, but true, argument is that it's better for the child to be a low-wage laborer than a prostitute – or to starve to death. Separating the topics of child labor and subpar working conditions, there isn't anything morally reprehensible about having every able-bodied member contribute to the overall welfare of the family. 

>Our culture doesn't expect much of its youth, so this is a hard concept for us to embrace. But in a country where the standard of living is so low that families struggle just to survive, it's not just an academic conversation. It's a hard fact that children will need to work to sustain the family.

*NOTE: Don't drag the reader thru the details, not relevant to plot. Just summarize, imply, hint, don't take the tangent!*

None of the students supported the concept of a sweatshop before the brainstorming session began – and none supported them at its end. But, they all had better insights as to why someone might make the case for the existence, if not necessity, of low-wage factories overseas.
