---
layout: book
title: "Chapter 13"
tagline: "The Stake Out"
lastReviewedOn: "2016-10-03 00:00:00 -0500"
status: stub
---

{pagebreak}

# Chapter Thirteen: The Stake Out

- Darnell researches Tor, discovers vulnerability – statistical analysis of sent and received packets. 
- Notices pattern in time / day legitimate posts occur.
- Establishes plan with social media site (for just the one known fan page that’s being used) and two of the largest ISPs in town – including the one that provided service to Archie’s renal house.
- Determines that traffic is coming from Mad Canopy.
- Yet another sting. This one is more ongoing.
- Draws more attention to Archie. (Start planting seeds that Archie may want to be less bold. While still sympathetic to cause, want out of rebellion as active member. Will meet with Eddie to confess and seek advice in later chapter.)
- As with other stings, no luck on catching poster of messages.
- Nick is there every time, but he’s always there. Using same social media site, but so do 300+ million other users. Not enough to act on.
- Eventually, Darnell speculates that messages are actually being sent a distance from the café (across street using directional antenna?).
- After return to MIGCO, Shares info with Tom. Doesn’t trust Cecelia or Director? 
- Luckily, our test message was malformed, so it likely was never received by rebels.
- Post conversation with Tom, Darnell reviews surveillance footage from several weeks, shows van at same times. Can’t make out identifying info. Should be there tomorrow. Will look for van then.
- Big surprise at end of chapter: Tom warns his cell (Harold Lukman) about the ability of agency to distinguish between authentic & decoy messages. Doesn’t know that van has been identified. 
- WTH? Tom’s in a cell? (Yep.)
