---
layout: book
title: "Chapter 21"
tagline: "The Free WiFi"
lastReviewedOn: "2016-10-03 00:00:00 -0500"
status: stub
---

{pagebreak}

# Chapter Twenty-one: The Free WiFi

- Archie is confronted about the rebel communiqués coming from his café.
- Archie denies involvement.
- Authorities reveal that they believe the activity happened outside of the café, but insist that he install tracking software so that they can identify the user with enough certainty to build a case.
- Of course, Archie agrees.
- [More stuff here.]
- After cops leave, Archie walks over to Eddie’s office.
- Speaks with Eddie, who once again chastises him over talking to the police without legal representation.
- Archie gets Eddie to explain attorney-client privilege. Wants to be honest with Eddie.
- Confesses that he’s been an active member of the rebellion, but the incident with the rental property (in which there were no tenants!), and today’s run-in with the police (in which he was aware of the WiFi usage) has spooked him.
- Eddie is shocked. Reaffirms that he cannot reveal the information, but reminds Archie that he has to report planned, future criminal activity, if you plan on doing something illegal, don’t tell me. I can’t protect you if I know
- Archie seeks advice for backing out of his involvement.
- Monologue from Archie of why he thinks they can’t succeed.
- Feels a great relief after confessing.
- Big surprise at end of chapter: Eddie warns his cell (Harold Lukman) about Archie’s wavering support of the cause. WTH? Eddie’s in a cell? (Yep.)
- Harold thanks him for the info.
